Video: How to Install Couchbase on Windows

---

Hello I'm Matt Groves, Developer Advocate for Couchbase

In this video I'm going to show you how to install and setup Couchbase Server on Windows

Start at Couchbase.com, pick the version you want to download.

I'm selecting Community Editor, 4.5.0-beta.

Once this downloads, run the executable to begin setup.

Alternatively, you can use chocolatey nuget to do this:
	choco install couchbase-server-community -pre
	
	the "-pre" is because I'm getting a beta version
	
	that will download and automate the first part of couchbase installation

I'm going to run the executable just to show the whole experience
	
Click through the wizard (unless you are using chocolatey) 

------

I should also point out that a CouchbaseServer windows service is now running.
If you need to pause or restart the service, you can use service.msc to do that

Once installed, you'll go to localhost:8091 and begin setup

You're going to start a new cluster. A cluster is a collection of nodes.

You can choose which services you want this cluster to have: I'll pick all four.
Full Text is new to 4.5 and is still an unsupported developer preview feature.
I can also specify how much ram I want to give to each node.

You can also decide how much ram each service will take. Don't worry, you can change them
later.

Next I can install a sample bucket. These are great for learning more about
Couchbase and N1QL. I'll install travel-sample

Next you can choose to create a default bucket. You can choose how much of the
cluster quota should be dedicated to that bucket. And you get a handy visual guide
to help.

You can elect to put a password on a new bucket. If you plan to deploy this, you definitely should.

You can also skip creating a default bucket, which I will.

Next, create an admin account for this node. I'll just enter a password.

And that's it. The travel-sample will take a minute to load, but now you are ready to use
Couchbase Server.

Thanks for watching my video

Please let me know what you think, and what else you would like to see in a video tutorial.

Leave a comment below or contact me at matthew.groves@couchbase.com, or ping me on twitter
I'm mgroves
