hey everyone, it's Matt Groves again

I want to show you one of my favorite things about
Couchbase Server 4.5, and that's the Query Workbench

as a microsoft developer, I'm used to working with SQL Server
Management Studio, and this Query Workbench tools feels like
that to me

just click on the Query tab here

there are three main areas, let's start with the N1QL Editor area at the top

this is where you can edit a N1QL query that you want to try out

I'll type in a really simple one here

SELECT t.*
FROM `travel-sample` t
LIMIT 5;

Notice that I get some nice syntax highlighting with N1QL
There's also a convenient button to save the N1QL query to a text file

As I execute additional queries, this workbench maintains a history of past queries
that I can navigate to, using these arrow buttons

--------

next, let's look at the Results area

here we can see the results of the query in JSON format. in this case, it's a JSON array
of the first 5 documents, so there is an array of 5 objects

I can switch to a 'table' view, which is a little more compact way to view the results
Or the tree view, which is very similar to the json view, except it uses visual cues instead of json 
syntax

you can also see some useful numbers about the query: if it was successful, how long it took to execute,
how many results there are, and so on

if I enter an invalid query, I can get some information about the error to help me fix the N1QL query

[switch back to JSON view]

[do a typo in the bucket name]

---------

finally, on to the bucket analysis area

Couchbase Server is a schema-less document database. There are no constraints to the 
structure of the JSON documents you enter, and the fields in that document.
If you wanted, every single document could be completely unique.

However, it is often the case that documents will tend to take on a regular form.
Some percentage of the documents will share roughly the same fields and structure.
With this in mind, if we were to take a random sample of all the documents in a
bucket and examine them, we could "infer" a schema. That is exactly what you
can do in the Bucket Analysis area.

Click to expand a bucket, and Couchbase will take a sample
(default of 1000 documents) and construct an implied schema. The bucket analysis 
will list each "flavor" of document that it finds, and what percentage of
documents it sampled that match that flavor. For instance, in the travel-bucket,
I see 5 flavors listed. 

now I can use this information to construct more interesting N1QL queries
for instance:
SELECT t.* FROM `travel-sample` t WHERE t.type='route' LIMIT 5;`

that's going to return the first five route documents

routes in the travel-sample are interesting because they have a 'schedule' field
which is an array of json objects
it takes up a lot of space in the JSON result, but if we switch over the the table view
we can get a little more compact view of what's going on

------

I don't know how I would get by without Query Workbench, and I'm really glad it was
part of Couchbase Server 4.5

Thanks for watching!





















